In the game development environment Unity 3D, you can tell an object to "broadcast" messages to all of the game objects in a scene. Any object with a function that has the same name as the message will then execute that function right away. How is this mechanism similar to cell signaling? What is the cellular analog of the message? The function? Name one of the biggest differences.
Just because a molecule is able to bind to a receptor does not mean that it will initiate a signal transduction pathway. Explain using an example.
Compare and contrast autocrine signals and paracrine signals. 
Summarize how a G protein can either activate or inhibit an effector protein. 
Novocaine is a local anesthetic. Briefly describe how you think it work.
Explain how a signal can change access through a nuclear membrane.
Given what you know about the effects of nitric oxide (NO) on the regulation of muscle relaxation, state what you think that the effect of nitrous oxide (N2O, or laughing gas) on cells.
You are a scientist researching the effects of certain chemicals on cellular regulation and signals. One day you come in, and your assistant tells you he spilled an unknown chemical on your cells. After a bit of chemical inventory, you realize that it could be one of two chemicals- both chemicals have the same effect on the cell, but the cell processes the signal in different ways. Think of a way you can determine what the chemical is.
How do signal receptors cause a cellular response?
RTK causes the creation of proteins for cell division. If the signalling process goes wrong there is a possibility for the cell to become cancerous. What is one way this could occur?
How are ion channels ensured to be open at the right time?
Explain the difference of gap junctions and plasmodesmata.
Explain how indirect transmission allows for communication between distant cells.
Describe a process by which a bacterial cell, such as E. coli, could prevent the loss of solute from its cytoplasm in a hypotonic external environment.
Ras is a protein that temporarily induces cell division. Given this knowledge, hypothesize one way in which cancer cells operate.
Insulin is a signal that is too large to move across the phospholipid bilayer. How then can it regulate the metabolism of carbohydrates and fat?
In the Signal Transduction Pathway, a signal molecule binds to a receptor protein, changing the shape of the molecule, then activates a signal transduction molecule. This then results in cell changes. Explain why you think the signal molecule can't bind to the activated signal transduction molecule directly and skip the receptor protein step. (Hint: Location)
What is the difference between direct and indirect transduction?
What are some mediums of signal transmission and where do each come into play?
Can both direct and indirect signal transduction cause changes in genomic expression?
Many perscription drugs and over-the-counter medicines list both drowsiness and extreme alertness as side effects. How is it possible that one chemical could produce both of these opposite effects?
What is one advantage of having a second messenger in the signal transduction train? One disadvantage?
Describe the basic steps of a signal transduction pathway which might occur in response to an increase in the environmental solute concentration.
Given that caffeine has a similar molecular structure to adenosine, a ligand that leads to a reduction in brain activity, explain why it is an effective stimulant.  
Explain the difference between cytoplasmic and membrane receptors. 
Discuss two reasons why protein kinase cascades are useful signal transducers. 
Name 2 of 3 ways to inhibit proteins otherwise synthesized because of signaling
Describe an advantage of indirect transduction versus direct transduction
What is the difference between direct and indirect signal transduction?
How can an apparently negligible change in an organism's environment produce a significant response?
Gap junctions between neurons are called synapses. Ions use these channels to move between cells, signalling neighboring neurons. Why might this have an evolutionary advantage over neurons that use receptors and signal transduction?
Pacemaker cells in the heart have "leaky" ion channels, which can be closed or opened with certain environmental triggers. Use your knowledge of cell signalling, provide a theory for how heart cells synchronize to contract at the same time.
Why are mutations important for the survival of a species?
Scientists have developed a variety of methods to combat genetic diseases, including supplying missing proteins. Arguably, gene therapy is the ideal method to treat these diseases. Explain why. Also, why is gene therapy a more challenging solution than other methods?
Compare and contrast a silent mutation and a missense mutation.
Summarize some reasons how genetic mutations lead to dysfunctional proteins.
Napthalene is a large carbon compound that contains two linked benzene rings. While relatively inert outside the body, in the process of breaking it down in the cell, it becomes very reactive with the nitrogenous bases in DNA. What consequences could this have on the cell?
With sickle cell anemia for example, do you think it is better to test people for phenotypic changes or genetic changes?
You are a geneticist, who has just isolated the sequences TTTATCATTAGC and TTTACCATTCGA, which are mutations from the normal TTTACCATTAGC. What types of mutations are these, and which of these mutations will create a problem for the organism and why? 
What are the advantages and disadvantages of some different types of treatments for genetic diseases?
Compare somatic and Germ line mutations. How are they different? How does each type affect reproduction?
Explain the difference between Silent mutations, Missense mutations, Nonsense mutations, and Frame-Shift mutations and the effect they have on the proteins being coded.
Why are Loss of Function mutations generally recessive?
Why might prions, such as Mad Cow Disease, be better able to transfer between species so effectively.
You want to understand how a species of fast growing plants produces two kinds of scent chemicals.  It seems like which chemical is produced could be affected by environment or inheritance.  Describe some approaches you could use and what you would learn from these techniques.
Ice 9 is a fictional, more stable form of ice that's denser than liquid water and solid at room temperature.  When it comes into contact with water, solid or liquid, it causes the water to freeze into Ice 9.  How is this similar to how a prion works, at least for TSE (brain disease)?
What is an example of a point mutation that can lead to a harmful defective protein, How does the protein lead to disease?
How does gene therapy work? Describe the method.
Approximately 3,000 unrepaired DNA-damaging events occur per human cell per day. How does the human body remain operational with all of these changes in the genomes of its cells?
Some mutations are caused by one nitrogenous base being chemically converted into a different nitrogenous base. Why is it beneficial for the bases C, U, and T to be chemically similar despite the potential for such mutations?
How does the allele-specific cleavage method of DNA testing work and what are its limitations?
How does gel electrophoresis separate DNA fragments?
After sequencing your DNA, you, a healthy individual, have discovered that you have a point mutation! Given your knowledge of point mutations, should you be panicking?
Scientists have discovered a species that contains a high percentage of methylated cytosines in its DNA. What can you infer about future generations of this species?
Rank the three categories of point mutations (nonsense, missense, silent) in order of likeliness to be detrimental to the cell’s health and justify your decisions.
Compare the significance of a somatic mutation with a germ line mutation. Consider both present generations and future ones.
Using your knowledge of feedback in genetic expression, describe a manner in which a genetic disease caused by an overly expressed protein may be mitigated.
Name a possible social or ethical issue that is related to the identification or utilization of STRs in individuals.
Given that a nonsense mutation occurs when a base substitution causes a stop codon, explain why the location at which the nonsense mutation occurs has an impact on its resulting effect.
Why is it significant that most diseases are multifactorial?
Explain what a polymorphism is and how it is differs from a mutation. 
(from teachable unit) The AVPR1A polymorphism is related to musical ability but has also been related to altruism and human connection. Give one example of how these two effects could be related. 
Describe an advantage of gene therapy over supplying a missing or defective protein.
Explain a way to determine DNA length with gel electrophoresis. 
You are given the (impossible) option of preventing all future genetic mutations in humans. Why is this a good idea? Why is it a bad idea?
You are investigating a mutation. You know it is a point mutation of some sort. The protein coded for is "off" by many amino acids. What might have happened?
Discuss the central dogma with respect to prions and propose a treatment for prion-based diseases.
Hemophilia can be treated with either regular intake of synthetic clotting factors or gene therapy. What are the advantages of each? Which do you think is more effective?
If you had to sequence the human genome using hierarchical sequencing or shotgun sequencing, which would you choose? Why?
Beyond the "coolness factor" of "creating life", what are some of the potential benefits/applications of developing synthetic genomes?
Summarize the differences in sequencing a eukaryotic genome versus sequencing a prokaryotic genome. 
Compare and contrast the three different repetitive sequences in eukaryotic genomes: highly repetitive sequences, moderately repetitive sequences, and transposons.
Humans have varying responses to a blood thinner. On the same dose, some patients will get under-dosed and others over-dosed. Is there a genetic way to solve this problem?
Describe the differences between genomics and genetics.
Compare and contrast hierarchical sequencing and shotgun sequencing.  What are the benefits of each?  The limitations?
Explain the significance of gene families.
What are the advantages of sequencing each human for their specific genome?
If proteins are the result of the expression of genes, why is the proteome more complex than the genome?
What are the benefits of sequencing dogs' genomes for humans?
What are the medical benefits to human genomics?
Rickettsia prowazekii, the bacteria that causes typhus has 6 genes that encode for proteins that are essential for its virulence. How might this information help scientists find a cure of typhus. 
How can the study of proteomics be used for preventative healthcare?
Describe how non-translated repeated sequences of DNA can play a role in genetic diversity.
Why is it important to understand an individual's genetic variation when administering certain drugs?
Segments of DNA called transposable elements can move from place to place in the genome and can even be inserted into another piece of DNA in the same cell. How can researchers use this to determine whether or not a gene is essential to a cell?
Given that the Caenorhabditis elegans, a millimeter-long nematod (roundworm) has a transparent body that develops over 3 days from a fertilized egg to an adult worm made up of nearly 1,000 cells, along with a nervous system, digests food, reproduces sexually, and ages, why is it a good model organism for studying multicellularity?
What are some of the greatest threats transposons pose to cellular health?
Given that transposons can both “cut-and-paste” and “copy-and-paste,” what would the functions of the main proteins involved in these processes be?
Why is shotgun sequencing faster than hierarchical sequencing?
Why do proteomics or metabolomics give a better description of organisms  than the genome?
Considering the origin of membrane-bound organelles in eukaryotic cells, provide an explanation for why eukaryotes have so many genes.
The proteome far more complex than the genome, but the book mainly describes the process of identifying sequences of amino acids in the proteomes of organisms. Why else might the proteome be so complex?
Explain why the improvement of sequencing technologies made shotgun sequencing advantageous over hierarchal sequencing.  
What did scientists gain from the Dog Genome Project?
Explain what SNPs are and how they can be identified. 
Describe the differences between primary and secondary metabolites.
Explain what we can discover with comparative genomics.
Does the length of an organism's genome necessarily relate to the number of genes encoded?
Compare the relative merits of hierarchical DNA sequencing and shotgun DNA sequencing.
You have discovered a strange new bacterium with only 350 protein-coding genes. You want to figure out how many of these (and which ones) are essential to the bacterium’s existence. How might you determine this?
Despite having sequenced much of the human genome, we still do not have a strong understanding and the proteome. Give two reasons as to why this is.
The Sleeping Beauty transposon is a synthetic transposable sequence which can be used to genetically modify organisms. The SB transposon contains regulator sequences, which can promote or inhibit its transcription and that of the genes around it. What are some advantages o this method of gene insertion over the two we have already studied: viral vectors and plasmids.
Mendel's apprentice fertilizes a green-podded pea plant with itself. It has four offspring, and all of them have green pods (yellow pods are recessive). Can he be sure that the original plant is true-breeding? What about the offspring?
Why might people before Mendel have believed in the concept of "blending" - the idea that crossing two individuals with different traits (such as color) result in offspring with an irreversible blend of those traits?
Summarize the experimentation of the key assumption about how inheritance works: each parent contributes equally to offspring.
Compare and contrast the terms homozygous and heterozygous
Assuming that eye color is a simple dominant/recessive trait, and that blue eyes is recessive, how do you think the blue-eyed phenotype began to show its self?
If you know the entirety of a person's genome, what can you actually tell about them?
Explain the importance of Mendel's experiments.
Explain the difference between phenotype and genotype.
Explain the difference between co-dominance, pleiotropic, and incomplete dominance, and give an example of each.
Design an experiment that allows you to find approximate gene map of bacteria with two genotypes, each with six alleles.
Morgan's studies showed that in flies the genes for body color and wing size are linked, so alleles do not sort independently. Explain the importance of this discovery.
Is it possible for a man to have an XX sex chromosome? A woman to have an XY?
Explain how you would test whether or not an organism has a homozygous dominant genotype.
Explain why men are statistically more likely to be color blind than women ( genes determining color blindness are mostly in X chromosome.)
The phrase “maybe it skips a generation” is a layman term used to describe a lack of some heritable trait (phenotype) in a child that is present in a parent. Describe two different phenomena that can cause a trait to “skip” a generation.
Assume a particular trait with two alleles, one recessive and one dominant, which noticeably affects the fitness of an organism within a population. Natural selection will nearly eliminate the presence of affected organisms in the population over time. Will this process take longer if the damaging allele is recessive or dominant? Explain your reasoning.
To answer the qustion "are characteristics of contrasting peas irreversibly blended in successive generations", Mendel crossed a true-breeding spherical (dominant) seed and a true-breeding wrinkled (recessive) seed. Based on what you know of the Mendelian laws of inheritance, predict what the results of the F1 and F2 should be and answer the question.
Why is it the case that recessive sex-linked mutations are expressed more often in males than in females?
Given that a female fly with alleles XR XR is mated with a male fly with alleles Xr Y, what kind of daughters and sons would they have? (The dominant R allele is expressed as Red eyes while the r allele is expressed as White eyes)
Pretend a dog has an allele that is expressed as green colored fur. Does this necessarily mean that the dog will have green colored fur? Give two reasons why or why not.
What genetic effect gives blood cells their multiple types and why is it important for blood donating?
Explain the difference between incomplete dominance and codominance. Choose a subject creature and describe the possibly phenotypes if incomplete dominance or codominance were present.
Height is a quantitative trait. Explain how genetic and non-genetic factors contribute in the vast differences in human height.
What determines the probability that two genes on the same chromosome will be linked, and why?
Given that the mutant recessive allele for colorblindness is found in a gene on the X-chromosome and that its phenotype appears in in heterozygous or hemizygous individuals. Explain why this mutant phenotype can skip a generation.
Describe a possible experiment you could perform to determine if an individual with a dominant phenotype has a heterozygous or homozygous genotype.  
Explain why is it wrong to assume that a complete map of the genome can tell you exactly what a person looks like.
The tortoiseshell coloring on calico cats is due to Barr-body inactivation, which causes only one X chromosome within each somatic cell to express its genes. Explain why calico cats are thus, primarily female.
Compare and contrast incomplete dominance and codominance of alleles. Give examples of each type of dominance.